Doctrine and OpenCollective (#444)
doctrine/doctrine-website: source/blog/2022-03-24-opencollective.md

---
title: "On Doctrine Sponsoring with the help of OpenCollective"
authorName: Benjamin Eberlei
authorEmail: kontakt@beberlei.de
permalink: /2022/03/24/opencollective.html
---

To simplify our own administrative burden, we have decided to move over the
funds to [OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/doctrine), primarily

> motiviated by the success and positive experience of the new PHP Foundation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
motivated by the success and positive experience of the new PHP Foundation.
```

We have started raising money for the Doctrine in 2019 through Patreon and
Github Sponsors to support the project. It was planned to organize core team

> gettogethers/hackathons, but due to the pandemic we haven't been able to do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get-togethers/hackathons, but due to the pandemic we haven't been able to do this.
```

In addition the legal and tax implications of raising money also caused us
some headaches. 

The move to OpenCollective will allow us to delegate much of the administrative
work to them for a small percentage of the raised capital. The fee is a much
smaller amount than the taxes that we had to pay on the raised money
previously, so it is a win-win for us.

We want to assure our sponsors that we still plan to make use of the funds
to further the Doctrine project and we are actively looking to increase our funding
for these goals:

> - Regulalry organize hackathons for Doctrine Core team contributors, including
>   3-4 days of accomodation, food and travel for roughly 10-15 people.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Regularly organize hackathons for Doctrine Core team contributors, including
  3-4 days of accommodation, food and travel for roughly 10-15 people.
```

- Infrastructure, servers and hosting.

> - Marketing material such as stickers, t-shirts, other small things.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Marketing material such as stickers, t-shirts and other small things.
```
